FIPS for ingest tools (#2136)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/security/fips-ingest.md

---
applies_to:
  deployment: ga
navigation_title: 
products:
  - id: apm
  - id: beats
  - id: elastic-agent
  - id: fleet
applies_to:

>   stack: ga 9.1

Author: Here's how we're handing this for 9.1.0: 
<img width="264" height="61" alt="Screenshot 2025-07-17 at 6 59 14 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7e6b19a6-8710-43c3-8392-1a70e213b3b4" />

We'll handle messaging and content for 8.19.0 in a separate PR. I'll add it to our punch list.

---
applies_to:
  deployment: ga
navigation_title: 
products:
  - id: apm
  - id: elastic-agent
  - id: beats
  - id: fleet
applies_to:
  stack: preview 9.1

---

# FIPS mode for Ingest tools [fips-ingest]

{{agent}}, {{fleet}}, {{filebeat}}, {{metricbeat}}, and {{apm-server}} binaries are built and can be configured to use FIPS 140-2 compliant cryptography.
Generally speaking FIPS 140-2 requirements can be summarized as:
- linking against a FIPS certified cryptographic library
- using only FIPS approved cryptographic functions
- ensuring that the configuration of the component is FIPS 140-2 compliant.

> 

Author: @simitt  I had the info about the binaries in the last section.  Do you want to see the configuration notice added as part of the info and before Limitations?  If so, do you want to see the binary info come with it?

> 

Author: @simitt in the previous review, you suggested changing some instances of `140-2` to `140-2/3` 
Should that be a global change? Or should we eval case by case?

> 

Reviewer: >@simitt I had the info about the binaries in the last section. Do you want to see the configuration notice added as part of the info and before Limitations? If so, do you want to see the binary info come with it?

To me what you have and how it is combined makes sense; the only suggestion I have is to move it further up, I'd place it before the _Limitations_ section.

---
applies_to:
  deployment: ga
navigation_title: 
products:
  - id: apm
  - id: elastic-agent
  - id: beats
  - id: fleet
applies_to:
  stack: preview 9.1

---

# FIPS mode for Ingest tools [fips-ingest]

{{agent}}, {{fleet}}, {{filebeat}}, {{metricbeat}}, and {{apm-server}} binaries are built and can be configured to use FIPS 140-2 compliant cryptography.
Generally speaking FIPS 140-2 requirements can be summarized as:
- linking against a FIPS certified cryptographic library
- using only FIPS approved cryptographic functions
- ensuring that the configuration of the component is FIPS 140-2 compliant.

## FIPS-compatible binaries and configuration [fips-binaries]

> FIPS compatible binaries for {{agent}}, {{fleet}}, {{filebeat}}, {{metricbeat}}, and {{apm-server}} are available for [download](https://www.elastic.co/downloads). Look for the `Linux 64-bit (FIPS)` or `Linux aarch64 (FIPS)` platform option on the product download page.  

Author: ```suggestion
FIPS compatible binaries for {{agent}}, {{fleet}}, {{filebeat}}, {{metricbeat}}, and {{apm-server}} are available for [download](https://www.elastic.co/downloads). Look for the `Linux 64-bit (FIPS)` or `Linux aarch64 (FIPS)` platform option on the product download pages for  {{agent}}, {{filebeat}}, and {{metricbeat}}. Look for the `Linux x86_64 (FIPS)` or `Linux aarch64 (FIPS)` platform option on the {{apm-server}} download page.
```

:::{important}
The default configurations provided in the binaries are FIPS compatible. Be sure to check and understand the implications of changing default configurations. 
:::

## Limitations [ingest-limitations-all]

### TLS [ingest-limitations-tls]

> Only FIPS 140-2 compliant TLS protocols, ciphers, and curve types can be used. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only FIPS 140-2 compliant TLS protocols, ciphers, and curve types are allowed to be used as listed below.
```

* The [Community ID Network Flowhash processor](beats://reference/filebeat/community-id.md) is not supported. 
* The [Azure module](beats://reference/filebeat/filebeat-module-azure.md) including the [Azure eventhub input](beats://reference/filebeat/filebeat-input-azure-eventhub.md) and the [Office 365 module (Beta)](beats://reference/filebeat/filebeat-module-o365.md) is currently not supported. The [Add Cloud Metadata processor](beats://reference/filebeat/add-cloud-metadata.md) does not support the Azure Virtual Machine provider currently. 
* The [GCP Pub/Sub input](beats://reference/filebeat/filebeat-input-gcp-pubsub.md) is not supported for now. 

### Metricbeat [ingest-metricbeat-limitations]

* The [Secrets Keystore](beats://reference/metricbeat/keystore.md) is not supported. 
* The [Translate GUID processor](beats://reference/metricbeat/processor-translate-guid.md) is not supported.
* The [Fingerprint processor](beats://reference/metricbeat/fingerprint.md) does not support the md5 and sha1 method. 
* The [Community ID Network Flowhash processor](beats://reference/metricbeat/community-id.md) is not supported. 

> * The [Azure module](beats://reference/metricbeat/metricbeat-module-azure.md) is currently not supported. The [Add Cloud Metadata processor](beats://reference/metricbeat/add-cloud-metadata.md) does not support the Azure Virtual Machine provider currently. 

Reviewer: * The [Google Cloud Platform module](https://www.elastic.co/docs/reference/beats/metricbeat/metricbeat-module-gcp) is currently not supported.

* The [Beta KVM module](beats://reference/metricbeat/metricbeat-module-kvm.md) is not yet supported.
* The [Mongo DB module](beats://reference/metricbeat/metricbeat-module-mongodb.md) is not supported. 
* The [MySQL](beats://reference/metricbeat/metricbeat-module-mysql.md), [PostgreSQL](beats://reference/metricbeat/metricbeat-module-postgresql.md), [MSSQL](beats://reference/metricbeat/metricbeat-module-mssql.md) and [SQL](beats://reference/metricbeat/metricbeat-module-sql.md) modules are not supported. 
* The [Oracle module](beats://reference/metricbeat/metricbeat-module-oracle.md) is not supported. 

### Elastic Agent and Fleet Server [ingest-limitations-agent]

When you use {{agent}} and {{fleet-server}}, these limitations apply:
* The [Prometheus Receiver](https://www.elastic.co/docs/reference/integrations/prometheus) is not supported. 

> * Running {{agent}} in [OpenTelemetry mode](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/blob/main/internal/pkg/otel/README.md) is not yet supported. 

Reviewer: @cmacknz do you have suggestions whether this should be enough to explain that otel is not supported in FIPS mode yet, or should we additionally list `fbreceiver` and `mbreceiver`, and potentially also list them in the filebeat and metricbeat sections?

Reviewer: @cmacknz and I discussed this in a sync. 

Given that the OpenTelemetry mode is not supported, receivers and exporters do not need to be particularly mentioned here. 

Let's delete L82 and rewrite L83 as follows:

* Running {{agent}} in [OpenTelemetry mode](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/blob/main/internal/pkg/otel/README.md) is not yet supported. This includes all receivers, such as Filebeat Receiver, Metricbeat Receiver, [Prometheus Receiver](https://www.elastic.co/docs/reference/integrations/prometheus).

* Some Elastic Integrations are not FIPS compatible, as they depend on functionality that is not yet supported for FIPS configuration. In general, when using {{agent}} and {{fleet-server}}, the same restrictions listed previously for {{metricbeat}} and {{filebeat}} modules, inputs, and processors apply.

  These Elastic Integrations have components that are **not** FIPS compatible, and **cannot** be used in FIPS environments, even if combined with other ingest tools that offer FIPS mode. 

  - [Azure Logs Integration (v2 preview)](integration-docs://reference/azure/events.md)
  - [Azure Event Hub Input](integration-docs://reference/azure/eventhub.md)
  - [PostgreSQL Integration](integration-docs://reference/postgresql.md)
  - [MongoDB Integration](integration-docs://reference/mongodb.md)
  - [MySQL Integration](integration-docs://reference/mysql.md)
  - [Microsoft SQL Server Integration](integration-docs://reference/microsoft_sqlserver.md)
  - [Oracle Integration](integration-docs://reference/oracle.md)

## FIPS-compatible binaries and configuration [fips-binaries]

> FIPS compatible binaries for {{agent}}, {{fleet}}, {{filebeat}}, {{metricbeat}}, and {{apm-server}} are available for [download](https://www.elastic.co/downloads). Look for `Linux 64-bit (FIPS)` or `Linux aarch64 (FIPS)` platform option on the product download page.  

Reviewer: I would only point to the binaries for download.
